- Oz...
The name on the street
for the Oswald State
Correctional Facility,
level four.
You may have heard
on the news
that we've been having
a little, uh,
tension around here.
Well, after
14 fun-filled days
of sitting
in your cells,
smelling your
roomie's farts,
a man is ready
to forgive everybody
for everything,
just to come up
for air.
- Attention, the following
will step out of their pods:
93A234, Adebisi;
978622, Arif;
97S444, Said;
99P334, Pinkerton;
95B327, Bismilla;
85T612, Tyrell;
95W856, Wolf;
and 88A578, Hamad.
Get in line
behind officer Howard.
- All right, that's it,
move it along.
Let's go. Move it along.
- What the fuck
is going on?
- What do you mean?
- They're taking
all the niggers.
- All right, quiet.
I said, quiet!
Shut up, now!
For the past two weeks,
we have been
in 24-hour lockdown.
Now, I'm not gonna go
into the specifics
as to what caused
this situation.
You know it.
I've brought you together
to say this:
when the lockdown ends
depends on you.
It is my intention
to put this prison
back on a routine
schedule.
But, hear me good.
If there is one
single incident
of race-related violence,
I will lock you
away again,
black and white,
24-7,
for the rest of
your fucking lives.
- See?
All that shit you talk
ain't gonna do nothing.
- Be patient, Kenny,
I have a plan.
- Is Glynn
fucking crazy?
This ain't over.
- I know, the niggers
are up to something.
- And so with
order restored,
warden Leo Glynn
has ended the lockdown.
In a related story,
the wife of
inmate Hamid Khan
has won a state
supreme court ruling
to have her husband
removed from life support.
Khan, who was serving
a 10-year sentence
for aggravated assault,
went into a coma after
being hit in the head
during a prison
boxing match.
- McManus wants
to see you.
- The family's in
with khan now,
saying their
final farewells.
And they've asked that you
say a prayer over the body,
just before the end.
- Bearing in mind
what happened
between Khan and I?
I'm honored they
asked for me.
- With brother Khan gone,
we'll need someone
to lead us.
- I bet I know who
you have in mind.
Yourself.
- Yes.
But, I need
to know, Said.
Will you oppose me?
- No, Arif.
I've lost the taste.
- The taste?
- For power.
I hope you use yours
more wisely than I did.
- Let's go.
- The man I hit,
is he getting better?
- Yeah, he'll be fucking
fine in about 10 minutes.
Now go to sleep, Cyril,
now.
Oh, Allah, forgive him
and have mercy upon him.
Give him peace
and pardon him.
- What do you want?
You killed me,
Cyril.
- I didn't mean to.
- Then what
about him?
- Who is that?
- It's Preston Nathan,
Gloria's husband.
We're never gonna
leave you, Cyril.
We're gonna be right here
inside your head forever,
for all eternity.
Ahhh!
Cyril, Cyril, shh,
hey, hey, hey!
Wake up!
Shh... Shh.
Shh, it's all right, shh.
- My brother Cyril,
you know,
he keeps on having those
terrible nightmares.
- The valium is not
helping him to sleep?
- No, we gotta try
something else.
- As I said before,
the nightmares are
rooted in his guilt
for causing those deaths.
- Yeah.
- And the cure
for your brother
is to alleviate his guilt.
And, in the case
of Hamid Khan,
I'm not even sure
that's possible.
However, with Gloria Nathan's
husband...
- I'll do anything.
Anything.
- You heard about the
interaction program I started?
Victims and/or
victims' families
sit down with the person
who hurt them and talk.
- Talk about what?
- Their feelings,
their anger, whatever.
And the guilty person
gets a chance
to express remorse.
- Yeah, okay, yeah.
Sign Cyril up
for that program.
- Wait a minute,
both of you.
- What?
- I am not about
to ask Gloria
and Preston's parents
to join us
unless you both
participate.
- Hey, I got
no problem with that.
- No, absolutely not.
I can't even be
in the same room
with the O'Reilly
brothers.
It makes
my skin crawl.
- This is a chance
to put the past to rest.
- I could give a shit
about Cyril O'Reilly
sleeping better.
Hell, I'll quadruple
his dosage of valium,
maybe he'll sleep
permanently.
- Gloria, this is not about
Cyril and you know it.
This could give
Preston's mom and dad
a chance
to have closure.
You could
have closure.
- Closure?
People always
think I'm a nurse.
No matter how many times
they hear me referred
to as "Dr. Nathan",
they call out to me,
"hey, nurse."
Now, I don't know
if that's because
I'm a woman or Latina.
Maybe I'm just too goddamned
nice to be a doctor.
- Does this mean
you'll do it?
- It means I'm not taking
shit from anyone anymore.
- Damn!
- Hey, Sister P., hey.
What did
Gloria say?
- She says, no,
Ryan, I'm sorry.
Maybe in time,
she'll change her mind.
- Yeah, but what
about Cyril?
I mean, come on.
- I guess we
increase his dosage.
- What?
- Ahh!
- Ryan!
- What happened?
both: O'Reilly cut himself.
- There you go.
Now, how's that feel?
- Tight.
- You rest here
for a while.
- Yeah.
- You know I asked Said
to tell me about last night,
about Hamid Khan's death.
Said told me that
you wrapped Khan's body
in a clean white cloth
and then added perfume
and prayed.
- O'Reilly, you don't
care about Hamid Khan.
- No, I do,
I don't know.
I just wanted to make
sure the fucking thing
got done right.
Hey, my brother won that fight
fair and square.
- Congratulations,
America.
This year,
the prison population
has reached
an all-time high,
two million.
Two million people are,
what do you call it?
Incarcerated.
Two-fucking-million.
That's the population
of Vienna.
of Houston, Texas.
The U.S. Of A
has five percent
of the world's population,
yet it has 25 percent
of the world's prisoners.
Whoopee!
- Bevilaqua.
Alvarez.
Giles.
McCullum.
Fuck me!
Command,
this is C-11.
We have a 74, cell 23.
- What happened?
- Is he dead?
- Yeah, but,
Christ Almighty,
look at his arms
and his legs.
- They're
all chewed up.
- He ate himself.
- That's disgusting.
- Yeah, I'm gonna be
filling out paperwork
for a month.
You goddamn
piece of shit!
- The M.E. Has ruled
McCullum's death as suicide.
He bit into his skin,
chewing off chunks of muscle
over the course
of a week or so,
causing himself
to bleed out.
- Sweet Jesus!
- Like a cannibal.
- A cannibal eats
somebody else's flesh.
- So, what do you call a guy
who eats his own flesh?
- Inventive.
- How he did it
is not as important
as what he did.
This is the third suicide
we've had in solitary
in two years.
- Well, not to mention Alvarez's
almost successful attempt.
- What's your point?
- We've got to do something
about the conditions in there.
- Conditions?
It's solitary,
for Christ's sake!
What do you want
us to do?
Serve high-fucking-tea?
- There's no reason
to talk like that.
No reason for
the attitude.
- I'm sorry, I wish
life in solitary
was all peaceful and rosy
like it is in Emerald City.
But, we get
the dead-enders
you other units
can't handle.
- I agree with Claire.
The only way to deal with
these types of criminals
is to sit on them.
- Well, you got no arguments
out of me, warden, but,
I think there
is a compromise.
- Let's hear it.
- A lot of other maxs,
they give the dinks
in solitary
one hour of rec time
every day or so.
Very controlled.
- That's right.
So, if they get a chance
to walk around,
they have more
incentive to behave.
- It's worth a try.
- As long as it's
my ass on the line,
any of you wanna
volunteer to serve as escort?
Okay, Claire, enough.
Like Gloria says,
it's worth a try.
- Bevilaqua!
- Prisoner number
99B521,
Louis Bevilaqua.
Convicted,
April 2, 1999.
Murder in
the second degree,
illegal possession
of a firearm.
Sentence: 25 years.
Up for parole in 12.
- Hey, Alvarez,
why you in solitary?
- This time, it's for
killing Carlo Ricardo.
- Carlo's dead,
you killed him?
- Well, yeah, I had to,
El Cid sent me.
- Carlo was my cousin.
- You're supposed to be
exercising your legs,
not your mouths,
shut the fuck up.
- Bevilaqua says
he just found out
Alvarez killed Carlo.
Bevilaqua wants
to know, man,
if you want him to finish
the job on Alvarez.
- Tell him, yes.
Tell him I want
him dead already.
- Alvarez!
Bevilaqua.
- Hey, Aqua, man,
I got a funny story
to tell you, bro.
You know, Glynn started
giving me a hassle
about who raped
his daughter,
so, he put me
in solitary.
I told him
Carlo did it.
- Carlo wasn't there.
- Yeah, I know.
What do you think
will happen
when Glynn finds out
you raped his kid?
- Command,
this is C-11.
We need backup in
the gymnasium, now!
I repeat, backup
in the gymnasium!
- Bevilaqua's dead.
- What about Alvarez?
- Intensive care.
- Is he gonna live?
- Unfortunately.
- I hope this puts
an end to rec time.
- Yeah,
but, I'm also transferring
you to another unit.
- 'Cause
I was right?
- Open the
goddamned door.
- Peter...
Peter Marie.
- Yeah,
that's right.
William, why?
- I, little shaver,
cookie jar,
mama mad,
George Washington,
cherry tree,
chop-chop.
- So, you told
your mother the truth
about stealing the cookies?
- Chocolate chip,
yum-yum.
- But, what has that
got to do with
your attacking
Bevilaqua and Alvarez?
- Liars, liars.
I kill, but, never lie.
Never, ever lie.
- Fucking Alvarez, man,
he's got more lives than a cat!
- Yo, man,
he still alive?
- He's barely,
in the hospital ward.
- Well, you make sure
that fucking scumbag
don't make it out
of there, okay, pendejo?
- This one's for me.
Shit!
- What's up?
Your sons?
- Yeah.
A cousin of
mine sent it.
She heard
about Andrew.
- Hard to get over
losing a kid.
- Makes me miss my other
son, Hank, that much more.
- You haven't heard
from him, right?
- Not since
I came to Oz.
When they're this young,
all you see is
the possibilities.
Let's go.
- Oh, time to renew my
subscription to "TV Guide."
- Hey, Beecher,
this one's for you.
- It's empty.
- Yeah.
We had to confiscate
the contents.
- A letter from
my grandmother?
What could have
possibly been in here
that you had to
confiscate it?
- Well, if I told you,
then you'd know.
- Hello, Tobias.
- Father M.
- Is Pete around?
- Ah, no, she went into town
to see her psychiatrist.
- She's seeing
a psychiatrist?
- Yeah, ever since
she started thinking about
not being a nun,
I thought you knew.
- No.
- Well, it's really
none of my business.
- How are you
doing, Tobias?
- You know.
- Yeah.
Any more trouble with
Vernon Schillinger?
- Well, there's always
gonna be trouble,
at least until one of us
ends up in the morgue.
- Oh, now,
I don't believe that.
I know that
the two of you
caused each other
massive amounts of pain
over the years,
but, there's gotta
be a way to call a truce.
- You've got to forgive
Schillinger.
- I tried that and I ended up
bleeding internally.
If it wasn't for Chris Keller,
I'd be dead.
- Well, how did you let him
know that you forgave him?
- What do you mean, how?
I told him to his face.
- Well, maybe this time,
you don't tell him.
Maybe this time,
he just knows.
- So, any ideas?
- You must do something
absolutely extraordinary
for Schillinger,
but, you must never
tell him that you did it.
- Well, then how's
he gonna know?
- All these things have a way
of revealing themselves.
But when Schillinger
does find out,
he'll see your gesture
for exactly what it is.
An act of kindness,
reconciliation.
- This is bullshit.
- Chris.
- No, you're not
going anything.
You got that?
- What, are you giving
me an order?
- Fuck, yes.
- Hello, Dad.
- Toby...
Oh, god, son,
you look terrific.
- Well, better than the
last time you were here.
- I've put some more money
in your account.
- Thank you.
- There's not much else
I can do, is there?
- Well, actually,
Dad, there is.
One of the
other prisoners,
Vernon Schillinger,
had two sons.
His oldest,
Andrew, was...
died recently.
The other, Hank,
well, Vernon's
lost track of him.
They're estranged.
I was hoping one of
the PIs from the law firm
could do some digging.
- You wanna
locate the boy.
- This is all
the information
I've been able to pull
together so far.
- Mm-hmm.
Well, I'll put
Swanny on this.
He's the best private
investigator we have.
- Thank you, Dad.
- Toby, I'm very
proud of you.
- Proud?
- Well, here you are
living in hell
with your own problems,
and you're trying to
help a fellow inmate
to reunite with his
last surviving son.
You are a remarkable
human being.
- Yeah, I'm remarkable
all right.
- Hey.
How's daddy?
- Good, great.
- You smell sexy.
- It's my father's
aftershave.
- Mm-hmm.
- Hey, don't.
- What?
- I need to
talk to you.
- So, what's so
fucking important?
- Look, I know
how you'll react.
- Jesus, what?
- I asked my father to locate
Schillinger's other son.
- We discussed this,
yeah, we agreed.
- No, we didn't agree.
- Oh, so, now
all of a sudden,
you wanna help that fuck,
Schillinger, huh?
- No, I wanna help us,
you and me.
I wanna stop living
every fucking day in fear.
- Hey, that's what being
alive is all about, pal.
- It doesn't
have to be.
Chris, sometimes,
most times,
I wish I could
wipe away the past.
I wish I could wipe away
everything I've done,
everything I've said that
hurt the people I love.
I wish I could
look at people
and not see all the
hurt they caused me.
And maybe, maybe
this is the way
to start making
that wish come true.
- Are you listening
to yourself, man?
What are you,
Tinkerbell?
You wishing
upon a star?
- I'm partially responsible for
Andrew Schillinger's death.
I need to
atone for that.
So should you.
- You know what?
Oz didn't make
you a bitch.
You were born one.
- Yeah, okay.
- Shit.
- Come on,
you bitch!
- Hey, who
started it?
- I fucking
started it!
I'm nobody's bitch!
You know what a fucking
bitch, you cunt!
- All right, guys,
break it up.
- I'm nobody's bitch.
- Now, most citizens would say,
"two million inmates?
I got no problem with
that because crime is down."
But, California,
which increased
its prison population
at a much higher rate,
than, say, New York,
had a smaller drop in crime.
Cause and effect?
I don't think so.
- Shirley Bellinger,
who sat on death row
for a year
awaiting execution
for the murder
of her young daughter,
will be returning to Oswald
State
Correctional Facility
today.
Bellinger's death sentence
had been commuted
when she became pregnant
while serving time.
But, after she miscarried
under suspicious circumstances,
Governor Devlin
revoked his decision.
- Here you go, Shirley.
- Well, can't I have
my old cell back?
- As you can see,
it's occupied.
- Well, maybe
he'd switch with me.
Would you
switch with me?
- Sorry, sister,
I'm all spread out.
- I'll make it
worth your while.
- Honey, there's nothing
you've got that I want.
- You'd be surprised.
- Get inside.
- How do you do?
My name's Shirley,
what's yours?
- Suck my dick,
you fucking cunt.
- Well, that's
not polite.
How about you?
You got a kind word
for a stranger?
- Yeah.
Moses Deyell.
- Moses?
Well, maybe you can
lead us out of Egypt
to the promised land.
- I wouldn't
count on it.
- How'd you end up here?
- ♪ Oh, mercy,
mercy me ♪
♪ Oh, things
ain't what they ♪
♪ Used to be ♪
- Ahhh!
- Prisoner number
00D718.
Moses Deyell.
Convicted February 3, 2000,
on two counts of murder
in the first degree.
Sentence: death.
- She was cheatin' on ya?
- Yeah...
With her husband.
- They were married?
- The bitch told me
they was through.
I don't fuck with
another man's wife.
I got principles.
- Oh, I love a man
with principles.
- You know, when I was
first elected governor,
crime was
out of control,
but, we went to work,
fighting for three strikes
and you're out...
- That bastard's running
for another term
after all the crap
he's pulled?
- I'm voting for him.
- What, why?
- Well, things
are better now
than they were
four years ago.
- Better for who?
Not for us.
- Well, in general,
life has improved
across the state
since Devlin
took office.
The economy's up,
crime is down.
- You'd actually vote
for that asshole?
- Yes.
- You can't vote.
You were convicted
of a felony.
You are no longer
eligible to vote.
- Really?
- Really.
- Oh, well, that's okay.
I never used
to vote anyway.
- Let's finish the job.
The courage to lead.
James Devlin,
governor.
- Welcome.
- Thanks for
seeing me.
- I get a call that
the governor's campaign
manager wants to chat,
I'm intrigued.
Please,
have a seat.
- You'll find that I'm not
the type to dance around.
Frank Feeley won't be
running for re-election
as lieutenant governor.
We haven't announced
this yet to the press,
but, he has cancer,
throat cancer.
- Pity.
- I know.
He was a great draw
for the upstate vote.
Governor Devlin has asked me
to make a short list of people
to replace frank
on the ticket.
I'd like to add
your name to the list.
- Me?
Run with Devlin?
- I know that you
and the governor
have had your
differences in the past,
but, I also know
you're as conservative
as he is
on most issues.
- This wouldn't have
anything to do with
Alvah Case announcing
he's running against Devlin?
- Well, I'll be
honest, sure.
This administration's
reputation
with the African-American
community is a bit tarnished.
But, deeper than that,
I think you'd make a great
lieutenant governor.
- You're offering me this?
- No, you're
on the list.
The convention
is two months away.
Between
now and then,
you'd need to increase
your public profile.
- How?
- Well, that's
what I'm here for,
to walk you
through the steps.
I'm glad you're
interested, Leo.
- I haven't said
that I am.
- Oh, yes, you have.
- Hey, Andrea.
- McManus,
what brings you downtown
from Emerald City?
- Well, have you
seen Diane?
- No.
- Wasn't she due back
from vacation today?
- Yeah, but she didn't
show up for her shift,
so, they asked
me to stay,
which is a royal
pain in my ass
because I think
I got the flu.
- Oh, no, look,
don't breathe on me.
I can't afford
to get sick.
- And I can?
Please,
I got three kids.
My husband's been puking
for the past two days.
- Oh, shit,
well, listen,
if you hear from Diane,
will you please
tell her to call me?
- Sure.
- And feel better.
I've been thinking
or feeling.
I know I've been
all over the place
and back with
this thing,
but, maybe we could
try again together.
- You busy?
- Oh, no, no, no,
come on in.
What's
the problem?
- No problem.
Hey, I just got off
the phone with Diane.
- Where is she?
- Well, she's
still in London.
- I just called
her hotel.
They said
she checked out.
- Yeah...
- No, her two
weeks are up.
She was supposed to
come back to work today.
What's she still
doing in London?
- Well, you know,
she and Dee-Dee
were standing in front
of Buckingham Palace
and she got into
a conversation with
a guard.
- I thought
they didn't talk.
- He was on break.
Anyway,
one thing led
to another,
and...
They're going
to get married.
Right.
- I'm serious.
- She's getting
married?
- Yeah.
- To a bobby?
- No, no, not a bobby,
Tim; he's a guard.
He guards the queen.
- Yeah, well,
then I can see
how they've got a lot
in fucking common!
Oh, fuck!
Jesus-fucking-Christ!
Did she leave
a number?
- She doesn't want
to talk to you.
- Well, I got a helluva lot
I wanna say to her!
- Which is why she doesn't
wanna talk to you.
She really
feels very badly.
- Oh, really?
- Now, listen, Tim.
Diane Whittlesey has
not had an easy life.
Poverty, spousal abuse,
single motherhood,
her mom dying after
a very long illness.
And just now,
on the phone,
her voice,
she sounded so happy.
- Happy?
Sure.
- If you need
to talk...
- What I need
is a drink.
- Tim.
- Don't worry, sister.
This is what guys
who've been dumped do
in order to move on.
Cheerio.
- Adebisi, you
still got the gun?
- Lower your voice.
- You still got it?
- Yes.
- And when you
gonna use it?
- I'm not.
- Then what the fuck is
the point of having a gun
if you don't
use the shit?
- If I use the gun,
I end up in the hole,
solitary or death row.
No, our goal was to get
rid of McManus, remember?
To have a black man
running Emerald City.
- Yeah, like you can
make that happen?
- I can, depending on
who I get to shoot the gun,
and who gets shot.
- I don't understand, man.
- Of course
you don't, Kenny.
Of course you don't.
- All right, time to go
back to your cages.
Line up!
- Andrew said you was gonna get
me, Poet, and Pierce
sent back to Em City,
what's up with that?
- I will.
- When?
- Patience, Kenny,
patience.
- Fuck patience, man,
That's all you ever
say, is patience!
Patience!
I've got too much time in
this motherfucker to be patient!
- No, I won't do it.
- Why?
- Look, Wangler accused me
of sexually harassing him.
I don't want him
anywhere near me.
- Wangler admitted
he exaggerated his claim.
- Exaggerated?
- Look, Tim,
Adebisi came to me
requesting that Wangler,
Poet and pierce get transferred
back to your unit.
Now, I'm trying to put
a lid on the racial tension.
And if giving Adebisi
this one small thing
helps do that,
I don't see what
your problem is.
If you say no,
I'll transfer him anyway.
- Fine.
- What's up?
Same old shit.
What's up, baby?
- Welcome home.
- Yo, let me
see the gun.
Let me see the gun.
Damn.
Let me hold it.
Let me hold
that piece.
- Come and get it.
- You three have been
chosen to do your time
in an experimental unit
we call Emerald City.
In Emerald City,
you're given a lot more
leeway than the rest of Oz,
but, the leeway
has a price.
We've got rules.
There's no yelling,
no fighting, no fucking.
You're expected
to keep yourselves
and the common areas
pristine.
You obey the rules,
we get along fine.
You don't, we drop-kick
your ass to 'gen pop.
Now, these guys,
these guys are gonna
be your sponsors,
help you acclimate
to your new life.
Augustus hill,
that's Desmond Mobay.
Chuckie Pancamo,
that's Ralph Galino.
And Gilliam Tarrant,
that's Jazz Hoyt.
- You've gotta be
kidding me, man.
- Yo, peep them shoes
right there.
- Where you from,
man, Jamaica?
- Yes.
- How long you
been in the states?
- Six months.
- What got you
sucked into Oz?
- Are you writing
my life story?
- I don't know you.
- It's like the man said,
my name is Ralph Galino.
- I don't know you or where
the fuck you came from.
- Well, I'm
a contractor.
I built a housing complex
that collapsed,
it killed two people.
But, it wasn't my fault.
- So, you're
not connected.
- Connected?
You mean...
- Yeah, anybody got
their arm around you?
- Oh, god, no.
Until this
little brouhaha,
I never even gotten
a parking ticket.
- Oh, yeah?
- No offense, Mr. Pancamo,
but not every Italian-American
is mobbed up.
- Is that so?
- Yeah, most of us live normal,
law-abiding lives.
The Guido gangster is an
ugly and unfair stereotype.
- So, who is he?
- Just another
fucking asshole.
- Yo!
- You got money?
Gimme it.
Fuckin' pussy.
- Everybody in Oz
has a job,
which can range from
maintenance to food service,
to machinery.
You have
secretarial skills,
so the warden has requested
that you work in his office.
- Okay.
- You also have a history
of drug abuse.
- History.
I'm done
with drugs.
- Uh-huh, just in case,
I'm gonna have you take
part in our rehab sessions,
at least for
a few weeks.
You keep
your nose clean,
both figuratively
and literally,
and we'll get along.
Go see the warden.
Next!
- Yeah.
- Warden, this
is Desmond Mobay.
- Okay, you can leave
him, Armstrong.
- Yes, sir.
- Detective Basil.
- Hello, warden.
- Have a seat.
- Nice little prison
you run here.
- Little?
Oz is the largest correctional
facility in the state.
- And, yet, the place feels
so intimate, so friendly.
- Now, I have
to tell you
the drug problem here
is substantial, but,
I'm not sure
how effective
an undercover
operation will be.
Several years ago,
we had another narcotics
detective come in.
- Paul Markstrom.
- Yeah.
- I knew Paul;
he was a good man.
- Then you also know
he was executed,
hung by the neck.
- Those are
the risks.
- Well, I intend to keep
a close eye on you.
That's why I wanted you
working here in the office.
I want to be
updated constantly.
- No problem.
- All right, let me
show you your desk.
The place might
be a mess.
My last secretary left
in kind of a hurry.
- Very nice.
I can use this to
e-mail my lieutenant,
my partner.
By the way, I type
85 words a minute.
- Shit, I might hire you
as my secretary for real.
- If I don't make this bust,
I'll need the job.
My lieutenant,
he wants results.
- What's your
first step?
-  Making good
friends with the bad guys.
Yo, man,
how's it going?
Some cultural
reading, eh?
- What, all
of a sudden,
you wanna be
my yaga-yaga?
- I stray wronged.
People say
you're cool.
- Do they?
- They also say
you know where a man
can get some relief.
- Some relief
or some reefer?
- Same thing.
Though I could use
something stronger.
- Well, whoever
you jawing with,
they misinformed,
I don't do drugs.
- No?
- No, not no more, no.
- Oh.
So, who do
I talk to?
- Just stand still,
they'll come to you.
- Hi, honey, it's me.
How am I doing?
How the fuck do you
think I'm doing?
Listen,
call Dan Bosey,
tell him to get
his ass in gear.
I want that appeal
signed and sealed.
I've gotta
get out of here.
I love you, too, babe.
All right, bye.
What do you want?
- Permit me to
introduce myself.
Nikolia Petrovic Stanislofsky.
- Okay, what
do you want?
- That cell phone.
How did you
get it into Oz?
- My brother brought
it to me, why?
- They're not
allowed.
- Really, no one
mentioned that.
- The prison,
they want us to use
the pay phones,
first, because they
monitor calls randomly,
and second,
because the state gets
a cut from the phone company
of all the long-distance
calls we make.
- Shit, I guess
I better turn it in.
I don't need any more trouble
than I already got.
- You know,
if you like,
I will take care
of it for you.
I can say I found
a cell phone
and no one will
be the wiser.
It's up to you.
- Thank you.
What's your name?
- Nikolia.
- Ralph.
I owe you one.
- No, no problem.
Better take
the charger, too.
- Prisoner number 00T416,
Guillaum Tarrant.
Convicted
January 2, 2000.
Destruction of
private property,
concealment of
a deadly weapon.
Sentence, 10 years,
up for parole in three.
- Yo, what's up, yo?
Welcome to Em City.
Nice shoes.
Your mother
give you those
before they shipped you
off to summer camp and shit?
- Leave me alone.
- What kind of
accent is that?
Where you from?
- Leave me alone.
- Yo, man, I'm just trying
to start a conversation, dog.
I'm just being
friendly and shit.
- Where you going?
Huh, where
you going?
- Yo, just sit your ugly
white ass back down.
- Check this.
Your shoes,
offer 'em to me.
- What?
- Offer 'em to me.
- Do it.
- Would you
take my shoes?
- Louder.
- Would you
take my shoes?
- Louder, motherfucker,
louder, louder...
- Take my shoes,
please!
- Oh, damn, cool,
a gift for me.
Word, hey.
Let me take
these shoes.
Let me see these,
oh, these the real deal.
My size and everything,
hook me up.
Yo, real...
Thank you.
All right, damn,
good looking, cuz.
My love,
appreciate it,
see ya,
all right?
- And then
they took them.
- Here you go,
blow your nose.
Guillaum,
here's the problem.
If I go to Wangler and tell
him what you just told me,
he's gonna deny it.
His word
against yours.
Well, he's got Poet
and Pierce to back him up.
What you need is
evidence or a witness.
- He's wearing the shoes,
that's evidence.
- But, then you have
to find somebody
that says that they saw you
wearing the shoes earlier.
Can you do that?
- No.
- See, any witness I find
is gonna say that
they heard you offer
the shoes to Wangler.
- So, what do I do now?
- Call your family.
Have them send you
another pair of shoes.
- Wangler will just
steal those, too.
- Probably.
Look, ummm...
I don't like those
three being around here
any more than you do.
So, if you ever see or
hear anything I can use
to hang their
balls out to dry,
let me know.
And in the meantime,
go to the infirmary,
tell them I sent you,
get a pair of slippers that
will tide you over until...
- Yo, Frenchy!
How about a game
of one-on-one?
Me and you.
- No, thanks.
- I'm not asking.
- That's why we say it
like that, baby.
- It must be
the shoes, baby.
Both: It must be the shoes.
- Good game.
- Hey, McManus.
- I got no time for you
today, O'Reilly.
- Hey, you ought to transfer
Frenchy out of Em City, man.
- Hey, since when
do you tell me
who lives here
and who doesn't?
- You don't do something,
there's gonna be trouble.
- Yeah, thank you
for the advice.
Hey...
Oh, man.
I heard what those
niggers did to you.
- Go away.
- Hey, this
is for you.
- Marijuana?
- Yeah, plus a little
something extra
we call a "duster."
Oh, no, why don't you
wait a few minutes?
If the hacks see you,
they're gonna eat
your ass for lunch,
so, all right?
Look, life in Oz,
it sucks.
The only way
for you to survive
is to teach Wangler
and his crew
that they can't bully you
around like this.
- How, how do I do that?
- Well, I don't know.
But, if an opportunity
presents itself, grab it,
because you're not
gonna get a second chance.
- The scariest part is,
all those criminals
that were locked into all
those prisons in the '80s,
you know, the good,
old Reagan years,
all those criminals,
their sentences are up.
Those bad men who
are more dangerous now
than when they went in,
they're getting out.
And coming to darken
street corners near you.
- Lights out!
- Beecher.
- Who are you?
- Tarrant,
Guillaum Tarrant.
- You the guy who
destroyed that statue?
- Oui.
- Fucking-sicko-bastard.
- Damn, your mom
work quick.
She send your
shit air mail?
- Get the fuck
away from me.
- Tough talk.
- You know
you shouldn't swear,
your mama'd
be PO'd.
- I'm warning you
to back off.
- What the fuck, son?
You trying to get tough now?
Huh?
What the fuck
you gonna do, huh?
Huh, huh?
- Stay down, stay down...
- Ow, godammit!
- Chris!
- Ahhh!
- Come on,
put the gun down.
There's no way out,
There's no way out.